a bad news yen but we had your 1.4 2
million u.s. dollars they spent this to
create a seemingly independent charity
to issue them with a license to kill
that's what it is they really are in
effect shills of whole foods they're
representing a corporate interest and
the bottom line is they're raising the
value of those products they're raising
the value of that pork beef eggs milk
ultimately this is a sticker this is a
label this is a controlled brand name
and logo that raises the value of final
product this is just not legitimate
[Music]
hobbies thing okay guys I'm gonna talk a
little bit about veganism hope that
doesn't freak anybody out maybe some of
you are just here to watch the videos
about a song of ice and fire maybe some
of you are just here to hear me complain
about my personal life about my love
life aur bole earning Chinese or about
Buddhist philosophy we've had a lot of
different topics on this channel lately
and we've had we've had some discussion
of eating disorders a lot of diversity
in the content but to talk about
veganism for a change I'm just gonna
read you a few paragraphs of this
article and you'll see why I'm reading
it this is from an article on humane
watch org meet mian park she's a former
vice president for farm animal welfare
at the Humane Society of the United
States in 2009 parks resume landed her a
job as executive director of the global
animal partnership ji AAP the
organization administering a new five
tier animal welfare rating system
recently unveiled by whole foods market
to judge from glowing reports of the new
meat dairy and egg labeling scheme mian
park sits at the Nexus of the animal
welfare mainstream and America's foodie
elite
but Park and g AP aren't exactly what
they seem g AP is beginning to show
signs of a legitimate vegan takeover led
by Park who as the farm animal vice
president at Humane Society United
States was crystal clear about her
desire to eliminate as much livestock
farming as she could so look this
article hilariously is from the year
2011 at that time there was still some
optimism apparently about this
fundamentally welfarist move to label
foods at Whole Foods Whole Foods is the
name of a chain of grocery stores in it
states and since then this has been
thoroughly discredited I think not just
in the eyes of vegans I think in the
eyes of all kinds of normal consumers to
now who actually pays for an institution
like this to exist g AP this article
doesn't get into all of the breakdown of
their finances but it says for example
in 2009 Whole Foods added another
$100,000 to its support for g AP
bringing the total to 1.4 2 million u.s.
dollars so I do not know how many years
that spread over but 1.4 2 million u.s.
dollars donated from whole foods to this
charitable agency and this agency is um
uh supposedly existing I mean the the
non-vegan standard term here is you know
do you have the fox watching the
chickens this kind of thing who watches
the Watchmen who is the policeman and
who is the criminal in this situation
who is investigating who who is holding
who to a higher standard so apparently
the funding for this started in 2005
when Whole Foods was the only donor
putting in more than 1.3 2 million u.s.
dollars into this organization and one
of the crucial people was a former
corporate affairs consultant for Petta
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals
named Stephen gross right so this is the
we're talking about your the tiny number
of people who basically live as
financial parasites on the vegan
movement and from an abolitionist
perspective they earn their money by
selling out the principles of the
movement to the highest corporate
bidders who want to see the green
washing of their industries they want a
label put on what the industry is doing
that makes it seem ecologically
responsible that makes it seem more
morally acceptable I guess more enticing
to consumers and ultimately that raises
the value of their product that raises
the ticket price of their product right
an organic free-range egg is simply
worth more money than a factory-farmed
egg if it's blatantly advertised as such
right so at the end thing there is also
a very simple question of financial
value this put that [ __ ] cuz I badge and
a gun to be beaten up the phone in jail
we could go go to tow a bit another set
when I was here in China back in the
year 2008 I met a young woman very
peculiar memorable character edge in
many ways this young woman and she had
for years and years been trying to
volunteer in this kind of humanitarian
sector in the organic agriculture subset
but you know the charitable scarf I
guess in the the charities linked to
making the transition to organic
agriculture and in the end she was
really crestfallen in her program
because she found that here in China
what was going on was a one hundred
percent corrupt game of different
companies arranging to put these labels
on foods and basically you know
brokering and bar
negotiating the deals for how
international agencies with license out
these in effect brand names these labels
that variously rendered a product fair
trade or ecologically sound by some
definition or ethical some definition so
it's a this is a very peculiar
demi-monde that involves a very small
number of people and so as mentioned
here um many of the people in this
particular group the g AP group the
global animal partnership group they're
veterans of other similar jobs they've
come from people to have ethical
treatment of animals the woman who's
being featured here mian park she is the
only animal activists to have work for
the Humane Society United States people
for the ethical treatment of animals and
also the Physicians Committee for
Responsible medicine pcrm okay she also
spent 10 years as president of
compassion over killing COK a washington
DC animal liberation group where she
also worked with paul shapiro and john
bulk so a small number of people who can
afford rent in washington DC move around
musical chairs between a small number of
jobs and it mentions that when these
people were younger they tended to be
involved with more edgy and sometimes
illegal groups such as the AL f the
Animal Liberation Front and then kind of
step by step they move into the mold of
these kind of quasi corporates roles
frankly selling out veganism to the
highest bidder as I've said now you know
it's not all bad it's funny I mean in a
sense I can say I believe in lobbying
but by the same token I look at these
types of organizations and i do not
think they are legitimate lobbying okay
I this is this is really using a broad
brushstroke but I can say that people
for the ethical treatment of animals
Humane Society United States and G
ap which was new to me I learned about
them today the I read about them just a
few hours ago the global animal project
GA p I do not I do not regard them as
legitimate lobbying organizations now
what is legitimate lobbying ok I'll give
you an example from my own direct memory
I remember one day I went to City Hall
and there was a very passionate speech
at city hall from a straight-up policy
hack from a straight-up shill if you
want to use the word shell from a
totally cynical he might as well have
been an actor in a play this guy got up
at the microphone at City Hall and
before he got up in the microphone the
actual elected officials at City Hall so
you know the councilmen or council women
or you know the representatives of the
people were sitting there and debating
how much they should pay the cleaning
staff it's a real question it's a real
political question they were sitting
there in debating how much should the
janitors at City Hall get paid and
whether it should conform to this
standard of that standard would have you
and then this guy who actually brought
with him a clack he brought with him an
audience he brought with him a group of
people again completely cynical
completely theatrical he brought with
him a group of people just to applaud
and Cheer his speech this guy got up at
the microphone and gave this very
well-rehearsed eloquent and well from
denunciation of all the elected
officials at City Hall saying they were
missing the point and that the question
of how much they should pay janitors and
cleaning staff should not be based on
City Hall trying to get the lowest wages
possible for these people trying to beat
down the working man to getting the
lowest wage as possible that should
instead take into consideration giving
these people a decent quality of life in
the city of toronto taking into account
for example the cost of rent that these
people had to pay or the cost of
transport to get to a neighborhood where
they could afford rent given the low
wages beautiful beautiful one hundred
percent cynical 100% corrupt politics
but beautiful as a real democracy it's
cynical and it's corrupt but that is
real lobbying this guy is somehow being
paid by the union
of these cleaners these janitors these
low-level workers at City Hall to come
and give them a voice that's legit
lobbying okay and I can say I believe in
it in the same way that I believe in
dentistry it doesn't mean it's a good
thing doesn't mean it's a bad thing I
think this is a really legitimate
function within a Democratic Society
right and at least the same stance
vegans need dentists we need lobbyists
we need people who can stand up at City
Hall at provincial Parliament at the
state legislature at the national
parliament at the National Senate and in
that way whether or not cynically give
voice to our interests as a special
interest group right and all kinds of
people inside you have that uh the
problem is when I look at this sort of
thing you know you you get the the
fallacy of instrumentalization um you
know so what apparently a whole foods
this for-profit company spent about 1.5
million u.s. dollars I don't know the
total budget this is only covering a
couple of years is only up to 2011 since
then I assume it now exceeds 1.5 million
u.s. dollars but I don't have the exact
figures but we had here 1.4 2 million
u.s. dollars up to em they spent this to
create a seemingly independent charity
to issue them with a license to kill
that's what it is a five-tier animal
welfare rating system for selling such
products as beef and poultry and pork
and eggs and milk right on five
different tiers of how humane those
those products are now you know already
you have
you can't even say conflict of interest
then this is just not legitimate
lobbying unlike the example i just used
dry described as cynical unlike this guy
who stood up at City Hall and gave a
voice to the voiceless gave a voice to
the janitors to the cleaning staff these
people are not giving a voice to us
they're not giving voice to me or you or
the other vegans they're not they're
giving a voice to their donors they
really are in effect chills of whole
foods they're representing a corporate
interest and the bottom line is they're
raising the value of those products
they're raising the value of that pork
beef eggs milk as I've already described
sorry 10 minutes ago in this video
ultimately this is a sticker this is a
label this is a controlled brand name
and logo that raises the value of the
final product in the same way that made
in France you know the French government
has a very very tight labeling system
for that for the specific province in
France where our product is made if you
have wine that is called champagne it
has to be actually made in the Champagne
region of France all that stuff is
controlled and it raises the value
raises the price of your product to have
a proper official labeling so that's the
kind of scheme this is the city
[Music]
eat up booties out of shape and when I'm
finished bring me yellow tape to tape
off the scene of the Swans you getting
swallowed up a bread and water I don't
know if that's over so try bigger down
and grab an asst nuts was on the other
hand without a gun they got number don't
let it be your clerk and a white one go
down through that Street town back pony
show me now photo by cop now there's one
sense in which we can't complain and
there's one sense in which we can the
sense in which we can't complain is we
aren't paying them right we didn't give
them the 1.5 million dollars sorry
exactly one point for two million
dollars but I assume it continued to
increase after me live in a sense we
can't blame them there is more than a
million u.s. dollars sitting there on a
desk when this scenario was created in
the first place by corporate interests
by corporate donors the outstanding
donor being whole foods I don't know I
could get the other numbers see what
other corporations donated apparently
some other companies did donate some
money I don't know I don't know who um
okay so there's more than a million
dollars sitting there on a desk in
Washington DC saying who's gonna take it
who's gonna step up you know and honest
I mean mian park I don't know how much
her salary was we probably could look it
up if there are real registered
nonprofit in the United States system
probably we can find out exactly how
much money she may appear but maybe she
made a hundred thousand dollars a year
for five years maybe she only made
seventy thousand dollars for five years
I don't know but life is expensive in
Washington DC you got to get a good
salary to do this kind of job in
Washington DC um all these other people
who stepped up and said me too who said
I want the money that's on that table
who said they want this job they want
this role it's it's very clear with it
in their dynamics are now unlike a
legitimate political party unlike the
Green Party of the Republican Party
Democrat Party it's not the case that I
can complain hey I gave you my vote I
gave you my donation you're supposed to
work for me you're supposed to represent
my
interest there there's merely you know
the appearance there's merely the false
there's merely the illusion that these
people represent veganism or represent
the animals or represent ecology
represent some higher ideal and they
don't they represent a special interest
group the problem is it's the wrong
special interest group it's not us it's
not me it's not you it's not youtube so
my point in this video is I can
understand that some people think some
people imagine that because I have a
diploma in political science because I
understand lobbying that when i talk
about lobbying government I'm talking
about becoming this kind of figure
within the vegan movement like me and
park like the g AP the global animal
partnership or like betta people with
ethical treatment of animals in the role
they've played and from my perspective
absolutely nothing could be further from
the truth this is not what i want to do
this is nothing i'm going to do and
impart just because I'm Canadian even if
I wanted to sell out I never could I
could never do this in Washington DC and
believe me in Canada there wouldn't be a
million dollars on the table there
wouldn't even be ten thousand dollars in
table this kind of money in politics
just does not exist in canada not for
this kind of tiny special interest so
even if i wanted to sell out i couldn't
um because I'm Canadian and the whole
game is smaller and less money in Canada
but this is not what I'm talking about
this is not what i want i can say that i
absolutely would be interested in
cynically or not standing up and giving
voice to the voiceless in the same way
that i just described that labor union
representative standing up and giving a
giving a voice to the the cleaning staff
at city hall right you know at that time
many of the cleaning staff at City Hall
were Portuguese speaking as it happens
maybe that's changed maybe now they're
korean i mean i have no clue you know
the ethnic diversity within toronto is
immense but i remember in the old days
we had a lot of Portuguese people doing
those kinds of jobs in downtown Toronto
and at City Hall at my university and
I'm sure over time that's that's changed
but anyway you know there's a reason why
there's somebody who's a professional
well-spoken representative
who does that and you don't just choose
someone who may be a poor uneducated
immigrant from Brazil or from Portugal
itself I don't know coming on the
microphone arguing with the government
you know there's a reason why there's a
specialized job for that um and you know
we had a great example that's come up in
passing in my conversations with mod
vegan which is this business of standing
up and giving a voice to being an
interest in the education system because
the education system is massively biased
by donors from the meat dairy industry
food processing companies just food
companies just like craft just companies
that want to market food to children to
form their their consumer behaviour
their patterns of consumption ties to
die for a lifetime there's money in it
for them they have a very clear interest
apart from the fact they want to
normalize what goes on at
slaughterhouses and all the rest of it
right um and I've seen some some of the
most ridiculous examples I remember
seeing in Australia in Australia their
meat and dairy industry got organized at
this kind of traveling exhibition to
show children how wonderful it was the
cows get exploited to produce milk but
in most countries this is going on all
the time at the school level somebody
needs to stand up and be that voice no
matter how boring or unrewarding the
political process is someone needs to
stand up at a hundred different you know
uh you know parent teachers association
meetings at a hundred different you know
educational council meetings wherever
you live the name for this may be may be
different but I mean in every
parliamentary system there's a different
name for the Democratic arm of
government education policy you know
there's some kind of council there's
some kind of city hall like meeting with
the ministers of Education hear
complaints from the public and they do
hear the voices of special interest
groups you know I've seen some examples
of that where you know like the the
Hindu community comes to those meetings
and says look we feel were misunderstood
we need education and Canada to explain
to children who Hindus are because there
are a lot of bad stereotypes about us or
the Jewish community sends someone it
says look we have a
lot of problems with anti-semitism we
need you know the package occasion
system to address these misconceptions
about our community all kinds of special
interest groups get to say their piece
and try to influence what actually gets
taught to children and you know as some
of those have been have been very
successful obviously the battles over
sexual education are some of the most
extreme we should children be taught how
to use a condom or what a condom is or
not those get debated in the mainstream
press but for every one issue like that
that gets into the mainstream press
trust me there were a million other
issues that are much less interesting
much less controversial that get debated
in those public meetings with the board
of education or e where you live it may
not be called the Board of Education but
there is some kind of semi democratic
arm of government vegans need a voice
there vegans need real advocates and
real advocacy and that form of advocacy
will never be subsidized by whole foods
markets or any of these corporations
Whole Foods is not going to give 1.5
million u.s. dollars to have a guy like
me stand in front of the board of
education and passionately explain to
them why a children's book showing a
happy cow on a farm being exploited to
produce milk is not okay why this
crosses the line why we however many
hundred of us there are in Canada are
gonna stand up and fight like hell to
get this book taken off of the shelves
of you know our schools to get these
pamphlets to get this propaganda taken
out because this is in a terrible way
influencing the next generation right
this is partly a cynical marketing ploy
to get children to you know drink milk
to buy meat etc it's partly normalizing
and glossing over the unspeakable
brutality of where milk actually comes
from where eggs actually comes from etc
etc right and there's there's a very
obvious you know indoors industry lobby
on the one hat one side of that debate
and there is no Lobby on the other side
right we
had the Catholic Church going to school
board meetings to debate those things
with those industries in the same way
that the Catholic Church really did go
to debate the status of homosexuals you
know in our in our poll education system
the way the Catholic Church really did
debate whether or not children should be
told what a condom is or what birth
control is those debates had more than
one side represented so I don't know for
the past 150 years or something there's
only been a weight in one side of that
balance and vegans desperately need
advocates desperately need lobbyists in
all of those completely unglamorous
political forums giving voice to the
voiceless and yes partly when I say
giving voice to the voiceless I mean my
fellow vegans but partly I of course
mean the uncountable millions of animals
that are living their whole lives on a
concrete floor under a steel roof in a
shed in cages living and dying to
produce food that is unhealthy and
unnecessary for an uncaring public of
human beings who couldn't care less if
their diet kills animals couldn't care
less if their diet kills themselves and
couldn't care less if this frankly leads
to the end of the world in terms of
ecological devastation somebody's got to
bring that message to all these public
forums and i don't mean once i mean a
hundred times i mean a thousand times
ice cube any mother [ __ ] in a
beautiful
just cuz I'm from the cpt boom police
are afraid of me oh yah and when I'm
finished it'll be a bloodbath I'll come
flying in LA go drink I got something to
say yo [ __ ] the police [ __ ] up all
these and that my friends is the
difference between real political
lobbying and what I see when I look at
people with the ethical treatment of
animals and this alphabet soup love
other I don't know more or less cynical
ploy to get corporate money to create
labeling schemes that you try to
whitewash or if you like green wash the
you know mass manufacture of animal
products industry gave me up